---
title: Adafruit 관련 정보
author: openmicrolab
type: post
date: 2017-06-24T14:23:51+00:00
url: /adafruit-관련-정보/
categories:
  - Open Source Hardware
tags:
  - Open source hardware
  - adafruit
  - open source business

---
2005년에 설립된 Adafruit 이야기

> Adafruit is now a highly successful community-driven electronics company, educational resource, and maker community thriving in SoHo, Manhattan.

### Description

<p class="p1">
  <span class="s1">Online learning resource, marketplace, and maker community for do-it-yourself electronics</span>
</p>

### Technical Data

  * Adafruit employs 105 people in their 50,000-sq.-ft. factory in Manhattan
  * 100% woman owned, no loans, no venture capital
  * Recorded $45 million in revenue in 2016
  * Received its millionth order in January 2016
  * 14 million website page views and over 2 million uniques a month
  * 34 million YouTube views and over 207,000 subscribers
  * Social media reach: 119,000+ Twitter followers, 2.1 million followers on G+ (4 million for Ladyada), 77,000 Facebook subscribers, 51,000 Instagram followers
  * Limor Fried was featured on the cover of _Wired_ (April, 2011) and was named Entrepreneur of the Year by _Entrepreneur_ magazine in 2012
  * Limor is a founding member of the NYC Industrial Business Advisory Council
  * Adafruit is ranked No. 11 among the top 20 U.S. manufacturing companies, No.1 in New York City by _Inc._ magazine, and is listed among _Inc._’s 5000 “fastest growing private companies”
  * In 2016, Limor was named one of the White House’s “Champions of Change”

### Features

Adafruit’s 10 Most Popular Products

  1. Adafruit Ultimate GPS Breakout — 66 channel w/10 Hz updates
  2. Adafruit Motor/Stepper/Servo Shield for Arduino v2 Kit
  3. PowerBoost 1000 Charger — Rechargeable 5V Lipo USB Boost @ 1A
  4. Circuit Playground — Integrated microcontroller and sensor board
  5. PiTFT Plus 480×320 3.5″ TFT+Touchscreen for Raspberry Pi
  6. Adafruit 9-DOF Absolute Orientation IMU Fusion Breakout — BNO055
  7. Adafruit Feather HUZZAH with ESP8266 WiFi
  8. Adafruit Feather 32u4 Basic Proto
  9. Adafruit Feather 32u4 Bluefruit LE
 10. Adafruit Pro Trinket — 5V 16 MHz

[*Source: Adafruit product stats 2/18/17]

### Applications

Ladyada’s 10 Lessons for Building Open Culture Companies

  * You can be a good company and a good business.
  * Open source isn’t a business or a marketing strategy for us, it’s the DNA of our company, it’s part of what we do.
  * Metrics — if you’re not measuring things, you cannot improve them.
  * We have a weekly all-company meeting called “State of the Fruit.” Be transparent with all parts of your business, early and often.
  * Skills can be taught. Good people making good decisions should be the focus and what is celebrated.
  * Celebrate others. It’s not just about you and your products.
  * Traveling takes too much time. Use the power of the internet. Publish frequently, from videos to blog posts.
  * Say no to things. It’s not about what you can do, it’s more about what you will not do.
  * Get a good trademark lawyer. If you’re open source, you’re giving away everything but your name, it’s important to protect it.
  * You do not need a fancy office or building to do great work. Great work can happen anywhere, even in an apartment.

출처: <a href="http://makezine.com/2017/06/13/open-source-ideals-engineering-genius-helm-adafruit-maker-revolution-manufacturing/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">http://makezine.com/2017/06/13/open-source-ideals-engineering-genius-helm-adafruit-maker-revolution-manufacturing/</a>